Grandma?
When you and Granddad met,
how did you know
you were meant for each other?
I think we just knew.
We grew up together, you see.
It's a small island, so…
I think it was just meant to be
that we ended up together.
When did you last go to Copenhagen?
Not since I started a family.
Don't you ever wonder what it would
be like to live there instead of here?
In Copenhagen?
Never.
The city is huge, noisy, and dirty.
It's full of people.
Not at all my cup of tea.
My life is here.
Our lives are here.
And we've got a responsibility.
We take care of all this…
beauty.
Nobody else can do that.
Just you and I.
We can dream all we want
of Copenhagen and the rest of the world.
But we don't go there.
And we don't see people from there.
Do we?
They took Anders.
-Careful or it'll get out.
-If you're gonna be like that, just go.
Jose. It's sitting over there.
Do you feel better?
I have some food for you.
Aren't you hungry?
That's disgusting!
What is?
I think it already ate.
Is that a…
Yup, that's a cat.
You need to stay away from it.
It didn't do that.
Did the cat eat itself, then?
I don't know. Perhaps.
Jose, it's a predator.
You'd never hurt me, would you?
We're buddies. You and I.
You must be hungry.
I have bacon for you.
Hey, are you okay?
Come on.
Let me help you.
You're still a bit poorly.
There you go…
Don't worry.
It'll be okay.
There you go.
We have to give you a name.
We've always loved the island, Karen.
We live here respecting nature,
making the sacrifices.
But so did Anders,
and look what happened to him.
He's the first person
to be attacked in 15 years.
And he'll be the last.
We think we know what caused the attack.
We'll act straight away.
We'll restore balance.
I'm looking out for you.
You're my responsibility.
And I promise you, John and Lisbeth,
that I will fix this.
This is Årmandsø.
Our local community
is more important than anything else.
-Yes.
-Agree.
Agree.
We commune unbreakably with nature.
Let's honor the connection.
Let's honor the great sacrifice
Anders made.
How many do you think there are?
Behind that fence?
I don't know.
I think they're locked in there.
By whom?
The islanders.
That would be a shitty thing to do.
They can't keep them captured
behind some fence.
They're free like us.
Maybe it's not to keep them there,
but more to protect everyone else.
Against that one?
Seriously. Get a grip.
What is it?
Still hungry?
I don't have any more food.
Kee-Ko. That's your name now.
Kee-Ko.
I'll look after you, Kee-Ko.
I'll get some more food.
I'll be right back.
Mom?
-Is this the last of the bacon?
-I think so.
Whose is this, then?
-Do you want to know what it is?
-Sure.
Forget it.
-You'll have to wait.
-Not fair!
Did you sleep last night?
-Yes.
-Didn't you hear Dad?
He snored all night. It drove me mad.
Don't you want to sit?
Sure.
Why don't we collect pine cones
in the forest today?
-But…
-Just the girls. You and me.
I was going to ask
if I could stay and read my book again.
Sure. We can do that too. So…
So we'll just read,
and we can light the fire and drink tea.
-A day at home. Sure!
-I mean…
If it's okay,
I was wondering if I…
could be home alone?
Of course, honey.
Hi. Nice to see you.
Would you like to come in?
No, thanks.
I wanted to invite you for coffee.
Coffee? Today?
Yes, it'd be nice to see the whole family.
I know Liv would like that very much too.
This is Josefine.
Hi.
Well, lovely then.
We'll all be there.
Say, in half an hour or so?
Sure, whatever suits you guys.
That's a deal.
We'll see you soon.
Bye-bye.
But, Mom…
-Does that sound good to you, honey?
-Yeah.
-Mom!
-Will Liv be there?
Yes, Liv will be there.
-Mads?
-Could you give me five minutes?
-Sure, but we're invited for coffee.
-Mom.
-Mom!
-What?
-You said I could stay here.
-It's just for a couple of hours.
It's two hours of your life.
You'll manage.
-Two hours? Seriously?
-Yes, seriously.
You can read when we get back.
We're doing this together.
Do they have bears here?
-Just keep driving.
-Did you see those traps?
I saw them.
Remember what we agreed.
They'll soon be gone.
Glad to see you found it.
-Yes.
-Hi.
-Thanks for the invitation.
Yes.
That looks delicious.
Thank you for inviting us.
Well, we don't get a lot of visitors
to the island, so do dig in.
-Thanks.
-Thank you.
That was one of the reasons
we came to the island.
We wanted time to just be alone.
And what…
What have you heard about Årmandsø?
We didn't hear much…
Mads' colleague saw the house for rent.
We saw photos. It looked beautiful.
So we figured it would be
a nice place to spend Christmas.
When you work long hours,
it's easy to feel disconnected.
We wanted to be together.
Christmas always gets
so hectic and chaotic,
so this is just what we need.
What are you doing on Christmas Eve?
Maybe they don't celebrate Christmas.
That's okay too.
A lot of people don't.
We absolutely do.
But Christmas can be a lot of things.
For us, it's a time to think and reflect.
To be grateful.
You could take a leaf out of their book.
Did you hear that? Did you?
Christmas is a time
to be with family and to reflect.
Peaceful, you know?
It's not about expensive gifts
from your parents.
That's a good cake. How did you make it?
It's just apples.
And butter, flour, and sugar.
All produced locally.
On the island.
Well, then…
I work long hours.
I don't have a 37-hour week.
Why is there a fence around the forest?
It's there because…
we once lived in harmony with nature
until some people came, who…
Who believed
that it's better to exploit nature.
So they…
They opened a lumber mill in the forest
and cut it down tree by tree.
Some of us fought against it, but it was…
Well, it was good business.
People liked the money.
So my daughter,
that's Liv's mom, and also her dad…
They worked there.
Most people on the island did, and then…
Well, then they closed the mill.
There was an accident.
A…
A terrible accident.
Some chemicals got into the ground
from the lumber mill afterwards,
so that's why we put up the fence.
So people don't go in there.
You need to stay away.
Completely away.
That's just typical.
As soon as we smell money,
we don't give a shit about nature.
-It's a crying shame.
-May I use the bathroom?
It's the first door on the left.
-More cake?
-Yes, please.
Karen, come in. It's Møller.
I'm at the house.
Over.
Karen, are you there? Over.
Karen for Møller.
I've searched the barn. It's not there.
Keep searching until you find it.
Hurry up. I don't know
how long I can keep them here.
Copy.
Excuse me. How do I get to Skovvangen?
-Go to the water and follow the coast.
-Thanks.
That's what interested us. Nature.
It's the opposite
of what we're used to, right?
Would you go look for her?
Sure.
I'll help you.
It's time for us to go.
Thank you so much for coffee and cake.
-It was all delicious.
-Jose…
Jose.
Typical.
We need to talk.
You have to get away from here.
But you invited us.
Not from here. From the island.
Go as soon as you can. You can't be here.
Liv, what's going on?
We know you have one of them.
A baby.
Møller's on his way to remove it.
What kind of creature is it?
It's a forest elf.
No, they're real-life, actual elves.
Not like the fairy-tale ones.
-Shut up. You're pulling my leg.
-They've always been here.
Hiding.
Isolated. That's why we built the fence.
We only go there to feed them.
Liv…
They killed one of us.
He went in and didn't come out.
Those little guys?
They grow bigger.
Jose.
Kee-Ko?
Are you here?
They're looking for you.
Are you there?
What's wrong with you?
Don't be afraid. It's only me.
What are you doing? Stop!
No! Don't!
Don't hurt it!
Møller, stop!
It didn't do anything!
Stop!
What are you doing?
-Move out of the way!
-Let it go!
I said stop! Leave it alone!
You don't get it.
You're welcome to stay until she's back.
She probably ran to the house,
but thanks again.
You're welcome any time.
I'm bringing the baby!
We didn't take it!
The visitors did!
It's back now,
and you took Anders, so we're even!
Okay?
Subtitle translation by:
Helle Kaiser-Nielsen